You were saying about French oceanography. I was
saying about French, but you can't say anything
that
any particular kind of oceanography is very
typical of France, because they have different
groups that have different ways of doing things
and different objectives. One group is led by
Jacques Cousteau. He's primarily an engineer.
rather than a scientist. He doesn't claim to be a
scientist. He's interested in using underwater
photography and underwater vehicles and seeing
what you can do with them and developing the
capabilities of these devices and developing new
devices, new kinds of underwater vehicles,
new
kinds of seeing underwater.
And, of course, they take beautiful photographs,
and they've used these underwater vehicles in
many interesting ways. The bathyscape, for
example. It's the thing that they use in the
submarine with this diving turtle that they use in
the more shallow water.
And there's another group that works for the
office organization The French are interested
in either the
present French overseas possessions or former
French overseas possessions like Madagascar,
present French overseas possessions like New
Caledonia and Tahiti.
One of my good friends, a man named Henri Roche, who
works for Forrestal in New Caledonia, he has a ship
which does physical and chemical and biological
oceanography
in the southern tropical Pacific, with
headquarters in New Caledonia. Another one
was also a script of Michelle Ongo, a station for
many years in Madagascar.
And he's concerned primarily with fisheries.
They do just standard oceanography, and
particularly biological oceanography,
but confining themselves to mostly the waters
within 1,000 miles of the place where they're
stationed. And there's a third group in the
University of Paris
and in the universities and other universities in
France who do theoretical or quasi-theoretical
oceanography. Some of them are very good.
Particularly, they've been concerned with
hydrodynamics of the motions in the ocean, and
with visible light, transmitting propagation of
light in the ocean. And they do a lot of more or less
classical marine biology in the Mediterranean,
and the Côte d'Ivoire, and the Bay of Biscay, and
places like that.
At least there are at least three or four different
kinds of oceanography done in France. In general,
it hasn't been supported very well. They haven't
done very much to bring new people into it. It's a
very small group in France. That's in general true
of the fact that oceanography is a small science.
It's generally true of Most countries, the only
countries where it's a big science, quote big
science in the sense that a lot of money is spent,
are the United States and the Soviet Union, and to a
lesser extent, the United Kingdom and Japan.
Everywhere else, they try to do things more or less
on the cheap.
And of course, most of the less developed
countries have very, very limited facilities and
very limited personnel. And the result is
that it's hard to do much cooperative
emotionography with the less developed
countries. Now, you proposed one time that sort of
an international foundation for supporting
science should be established to encourage
science in underdeveloped countries. Whatever
happened to that idea? Well, it's going. It
exists. That was not to do with oceanography. No.
It was to support individual science. Right. The
headquarters of it are in Stockholm. It's called
the International Foundation for Science.
They're spending about $250,000 a year in
supporting young scientists in developing
countries on practical or research that looks
like it had practical would produce practical
benefits. This was proposed in Venice in 1965, if I
remember correctly. When was the foundation
organized? Well, it had its first general
assembly last fall. Oh, OK. But it's been going now
for several years, and it's building up the last
year for years under the leadership of the Swedish
Academy of Engineering, and with participation
by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and
the National Academy of Sciences. It's, however,
the Americans have never put any money into it,
except a little bit for the Rockefeller
Foundation. The money for supporting it at the
present time comes from the Swedish government,
Canadian government, from Japan, and the
Netherlands, and Belgium, and a little bit from
other Scandinavian countries, and Germany. And
one of the things that I've got to do sometime if I
possibly can, is to try to find ways of getting
American support for it, too. They're supporting
now about 50 young scientists in developing
countries working on all sorts of very
interesting projects that have two
characteristics. They're good science, and they
also have practical objectives. For example, one
of the specialties in Scandinavia is the study of
mycorrhizae. Mycorrhizae are fungi that live on
the roots of pine trees. And in fact, a pine tree
can't live without these symbiotic fungi, which
absorb nutrients from the soil and transmit them
to the roots. It's a rather recent discovery that
these things exist. The recent discovery is that
they're very widespread. They've been known to
exist for 75 years, I guess. Apparently, all
tropical plants require these mycorrhizae, not
just the pine
trees. They act as a transmission belt for
nutrients, so the nutrients are recycled in the
biosphere and don't go through the soil.
Scandinavian specialty. You might imagine that
they have lots of pine trees. And they found young
scientists in Malaysia and in Nigeria and in South
America and other parts of Africa and other parts
of Asia, each of whom is working on mycorrhizae,
the physiology,
role that they play in the symbiotic relationship
of the tree and so forth. And this has several good
things about it. One of them is that these young
people have formed a network of their own. They're
communicating with each other from one blessed of
all country to another, which they didn't even
know the others existed before. The other thing is
that the Scandinavian scientists monitor this.
and go out and see them every now and then and help
out with ideas and with literature and with
equipment
and with encouragement, feeling that they're
doing something worth doing and not living in
complete isolation. So I think it's working out
wonderfully well. And the only real problem is
it's on far too small a scale. But that's a far cry
from oceanography.
But in terms of oceanography, we have a very
serious problem in the developing countries.
Those of us who were involved with forming the
Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission
were partly responsible for this.
Although I'm not sure that I know what else we could
have done. The
Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission
was formed under the sponsorship of UNESCO about
1960,
starting in 1959.
Most of the preliminary work was done by a small
committee that I was chairman of, a small
international committee. That's the
International Advisory Committee on Marine
Sciences? No, that was earlier. That was 57 to 63,
okay. I think it was actually the International
Advisory Committee on Marine Sciences was much
older than that. I think it was 51 or 52. That was the
UNESCO Advisory Committee. Well, this was a
special group of experts called together by
UNESCO, I think 1959. John Lyman was one of them,
and Vladimir Kort was another from Russia. I was
the American
representative. We made a preliminary plan for
the IOC, and the essence of our plan was that any
country could join it who wanted to do cooperative
research at sea. Well, that was a very narrow
definition, unfortunately. But it really said
that those countries that could afford to do
oceanographic research at sea could join it.
And that limited it basically to, it didn't really
limit it,
It de facto was a club of rich countries. Soviet
Union, Germany, France, UK, Japan, United
States, Canada.
Italy and Spain were members. The Scandinavian
countries were all members, including Finland.
They're not rich in the sense that they have big
populations with big incomes, or big gross
national products. They have the fat on their
bones. They have high per capita income. And
they're able to devote considerable effort to
science. Whereas the poor countries, like most of
the African countries, most of the South American
countries, most of the Asian countries, are in
such a desperate shape just keeping their people
alive that they can't really, that oceanography
is It was a luxury for them.
And yet they feel that somehow the ocean belonged
to the ocean. Much of the ocean as possible should
belong to them.
And this has come out very clearly in these Law of
the Sea Conferences.
I don't think it's unfair to say that a great many of
these less developed countries, which has
assumed not sea oceanography done off their
coasts.
Because they feel that somehow this gives the rich
countries an advantage in exploiting what they
call their resources.
Since the law of the sea conference is run by
politicians and diplomats with very little
concept of what science is all about,
Science is taking a very, oceanographic science,
I'm afraid, is taking a bad fall in those law of the
sea negotiations. The problem is basically this.
The less developed countries, the group of 77, and
some developed countries like Canada and
Australia,
want what we oceanography that's called a consent
regime, which means that the coastal state must
give its consent for any oceanographic research
done within 200 miles or within its economic zone,
wherever the economic zone will be defined.
Convenient definition is 200 miles beyond the
territorial sea, which itself would extend 12
miles from shore. About 40% of the ocean will be in
somebody's economic field. And most of the
interesting phenomena on the ocean occur within
this 200 mile limit. Most of the geology, most of
the geophysics, most of the currents, most of the
organisms, most of the resources.
So this consent
regime which looks innocent enough, will in fact
maybe destroy oceanography as we've done in the
past. We've had experience with it
in the application of the Continental Shelf
Convention, an international convention
established in 1958 and now coming to force, which
provides that the coastal state must give its
consent for research on the seabed and subsoil of
the continental shelf off its coast, as far out as
this continental shelf can. And a lot of you know
you'll write a letter to one of some of these
countries. You don't even reply. And if they do
reply, they very often, not uncommon, they deny
consent.
So the oceanographers have proposed what we call a
regime of rights and obligations.
This has slowly evolved over the past 10, 12 years.
The right is that anybody can do oceanographic
research anywhere outside the territorial sea,
provided he lives up to the following
obligations. One, prompt notification of the
coastal state if you want to do the research there.
Second, coastal states will have the right of full
participation in the research at sea. In other
words, send one or more people on board the ship.
We'll have complete access to everything on the
ship. One of the reasons for this is to avoid
another Phoenix incident.
In other words, to ensure that these ships are not
used for espionage. Third, the right of the
Coastal State, an obligation on the part of the
researching state, is to share all data and
samples, give copies of all the data to the coastal
state and parts of all samples. The fourth right,
or the fourth duty, is prompt publication in the
open scientific literature of the results.
Fifth, or sixth, I forgot how many numbers I have.
the duty on the part of the researching state to
help the coastal state in interpreting the
results. Because the coastal states say, well,
what good are all these data to us if we don't have
the scientists to understand what they mean? And
that's a legitimate complaint. And finally, we
have not been very enthusiastic about this, but
we've agreed, I think, that the coastal state
also has the right to object. And
if it does object and it has valid grounds for
objection, the research will not be done. The
decision as to whether the grounds for objection
are valid would be subject to arbitration.
perhaps by a group of experts appointed by UNESCO,
by the IOC, the Governmental Oceanographic
Commission, or in some other way,
to get to be negotiated.
And it seems to us oceanographers that this set of
rights and obligations protects all the
interests of the coastal state. There have been
various alterations of this the most plausible
and yet the most difficult to
use operationally would be that research related
to the resources would be subject to consent of the
coastal state. Research related to fundamental
science would be done on this more freer basis.
The trouble is, how do you define research related
to resources, or how do you define fundamental
research? Oceanographers have tried to define it
by saying that it shall be published in the open
scientific literature. It will not be
proprietary in any way.
Many of the coastal states of the Middle East and
other countries don't want that. They want to keep
the information private about the waters off
their coast. And they object, among other
reasons, because, well, they have all sorts of
objections, but a reason which would have seemed
logical to some of our people a few years ago is that
if you find out about waters within 200 miles of the
coastline, you get useful military information.
For example, how a submarine can glide, or how
effectively a sonar gear will operate, and things
like that. And I guess that it's not unlikely that
this consent regime will be
the proof will be the one that's approved by the Law
of the Sea Conference. If so, I think it would be
better not to have any convention at all, any
treaty at all. Because this will, as far as the
ocean research is concerned, it will be a very
serious setback
to it. One of the things that's been put in lately,
and it's called a single negotiating text, is that
the coastal states shall have the right to
disallow, prohibit, or prevent publication of
the results. You just can't get scientists to work
unless they can publish the results of what they
do. So all in all, it will be very damaging. And what
it'll do is tend to turn oceanography towards
local problems and towards experimental and
theoretical science rather than descriptive
science or international ocean science. in
the sense that the whole ocean is studied, were his
last words. We would have done better if we'd paid
more attention to the less developed countries in
the early days of the IOC. And
the IOC has continually given sort of lip service
to helping the less developed countries. But
nobody's ever known quite what to do. It's hard to
help them in ocean science
because it's way down their list of priorities.
And as I say, most of the politicians in these
countries feel that science is a rich man's weapon
or a rich man's tool. Therefore, some of you
doesn't serve their interests. Have you noticed
much conflict between the developed countries in
terms of defense industry and oceanographic
science? What do you mean by that? Well, do you
think that possibly the concepts of defense and
protection interfere with international
cooperation, let's say, between the Soviet
Union, ourselves, Australia, Japan, for
example?
Well, they certainly interfere in some aspects of
international cooperation with the Soviets. The
Soviets have always taken a dim view of anybody
getting too close to their shores.
And for example, in the Arctic,
our people pretty much stay out of the Soviet
sector of the Arctic.
And they pretty much stay out of ours. nowhere near
as much as we stay out of there.
I don't think that,
in general, it's a very serious matter for most of
the rich countries. It's a serious matter with the
poor countries. For example, with all of South
America.
with India, very serious with India.
Now, if you asked me earlier on what was the
necessity or the virtue of the benefits of
international cooperation,
the benefits come mostly
in studying the large-scale oceanographic
phenomena, like the Kuroshio, the Gulf Stream, or
the Somali Current, or the equatorial current
system.
Or
problems that require,
in general, problems that require the operation
several ships at the same time and in a coordinated
way. For example, some of the work that's being
done under the Global Atmospheric Research
Program, the GATE experiment in the Atlantic,
the work that's being done on a network of buoys
fairly close together. a couple hundred miles,
covering an area a few hundred miles on the side,
which has a special name. I don't remember the name
right now.
Work like that, where oceanographers of several
countries
want to work together to study a phenomenon that
they can't really study with the resources
available to any one institution.
Certainly, it's a good reason for international
cooperation. It doesn't have to be worldwide
cooperation. It could be cooperation bilateral
between the United States and the United Kingdom,
for example.
I think one of the most successful examples of
international cooperation is the deep sea
drilling program. which is now actually being
supported financially by six countries. Soviet
Union, the United Kingdom, Germany. I guess it's
five countries. Soviet Union, United Kingdom,
Germany, United States, and Japan. And the Soviet
Union putting a million dollars a year into it for
the English. And this is probably the most
productive work in geophysics ever done. It's
fantastically productive of new knowledge and
new results.
As you probably know, it has an elaborate advisory
structure under something called JOIDES, Joint
Ocean Institutions, Deep Sea
Explorations,
Exploratory Studies, or something like that. The
Deep, Joint Oceanographic Institutions.
I forgot what DES stands for there. But Woods Hole,
Lamont, Scripps, University of Washington,
Texas A&M, Miami, I think Rhode Island and all
these foreign countries are
in it. They plan these things
cooperatively and with a great deal of success.
And scientists from all these different
countries take part in expeditions. And each leg
of the program, there's a different chief
scientist from a different institution, maybe
French or German or British or Japanese or
American or Russian. And the participants are
from a variety of countries. This program is
managed by the Scripps Institution, and we have a
special of Scripps that runs the drilling. And
it's a very expensive operation.